# Sumo Code Snippets

## 1. Introduction

This repository contains code snippets that I have developed with the intention of automating some of the processes that I have come across when developing [SUMO](https://www.eclipse.org/sumo/) simulation models. 

## 2. Usage

You are most welcome to use thesee code snippets for your projects. If you need any assistance, please write to me (thenuwantb@gmail.com). Also let me know if you think the codes/functions can be further improved.

## 3. Code Snippets
### 3.1 Matching traffic counts to the random routes generated by SUMO

This scripts is useful if you have actual counts at few edges of your network and you want to make a `.rou.xml` file that matches those counts. Here, the script `routeSampler.py` has been used.

### 3.2. Generate Bus Flows with Random Stop Times

Using static stop times at a bus stop are not realistic to use in a simulation. Here, I have tried to generate random stop times at a bus stop based on different types of busses. For example, in Sri Lanka, there are 1) Short Distance Busses, 2) Long Distance Busses, and 3) Other Busses (office transport etc.)

### 3.3. Adding Vehicle Type to a Route File

The idea of this script is to add vehicle type to a `rou.xml` as the route file doesn't have vehicle type in general (there is a method to do this if you have different percentages of modes - via an `.add.xml` file).

In this script, the `.rou.xml` file is first converted in to a `.csv` file and then based on the time stamp (given that you have aggregated counts for 5 mins intervals + the vehicle type) a 'vehicle type' is allocated (in a random fashion) to the `.csv` file and convert the `.csv` back to an SUMO compaticle `.rou.xml` file.




last update - 01.11.2021

